# Attention Brokers on Bluesky
This repo contains code to analyze follow patterns before and after an attention broker's reposts. Attention brokers, or *tertius amplificans,* are influential accounts whose amplification (i.e. reposting) of other accounts increases the rate at which their followers follow the amplified accounts.  

## Python Files
* `count_follower_non_follower_populations.py`: To obtain per-capita per-day following rates for each account $R$ reposted by an attention broker $A$, we need to figure out the denominator in the per-capita equation. In other words, how many of $A$'s followers are actively following other accounts, and how many accounts that don't follow $A$ are actively following the kinds of accounts that $A$ reposts? Right now we're estimating this as the number of unique accounts that followed *any* account reposted by the attention broker. We run this as `python3 count_follower_non_follower_populations.py HANDLES_IN.txt $DAYS_FWD $DAYS_BWD`, where `HANDLES_IN.txt` is a .txt file with an attention broker's Bluesky handle on each line. `DAYS_FWD` refers to the number of days after the repost for which we're collecting data, and `DAYS_BWD` refers to the number of days before the repost for which we're collecting data. Right now I'm using 14 for both.
* `interpolate_missing_did_data.py`: `parse_reposts_and_extract_follow_timings.py` does not have rows for combinations of {day, reposted account, follower/non-follower} where no follows occurred. In order to run the actual differences-in-differences analysis or visualize the per-day per-capita follow rates, we need to add in those missing rows and assign a follower count of $0$. This is what this script does. We run it as `python3 interpolate_missing_did_data.py $HANDLE $DAYS_FWD $DAYS_BWD`. `HANDLE` is the attention broker's Bluesky handle; `DAYS_FWD` and `DAYS_BWD` refer to the number of days of data we collect after & before the repost, respectively.
* `make_mark_capture_histories.py`: Used to create capture histories for MARK, which is a program that does population estimation given a text file where each line is a string of 0s and 1s. A value of 1 at string index $k$ on line $i$ indicates that individual $i$ was "captured" (i.e. seen following at least one account) on day $k$; 0 indicates we didn't see individual $i$ following anyone on day $k$. I'm not currently using MARK to estimate population because I've been running into numeric convergence issues with larger populations.
* `parse_reposts_and_extract_follow_timings.py`: Makes CSVs with the following columns:
    * `gain_rate`: number of followers accumulated by the reposted account
    * `ever_treated`: Boolean indicating whether the followers accumulated are followers of the attention broker or not
    * `unit_id`: Identifies the reposted account
    * `time_period`: Number of days elapsed since the earliest repost in the dataset (keeps track of absolute time)
    * `ts`: Days relative to the repost event (ranges from -1 * DAYS_BWD to DAYS_FWD).
Note that rows where `gain_rate` = 0 will be missing from the resulting CSV. We run this script as `python3 parse_reposts_and_extract_follow_timings.py HANDLES_IN.txt $DAYS_FWD $DAYS_BWD`, where `HANDLES_IN.txt` is a .txt file with an attention broker's Bluesky handle on each line. `DAYS_FWD` refers to the number of days after the repost for which we're collecting data, and `DAYS_BWD` refers to the number of days before the repost for which we're collecting data. Right now I'm using 14 for both.
* `utils.py`: Contains utility functions for data parsing.

## Using the Repo
We need to run `parse_reposts_and_extract_follow_timings.py` and `count_follower_non_follower_populations.py` so that each attention broker account is covered. Once `parse_reposts_and_extract_follow_timings.py` has produced a CSV, we can run `interpolate_missing_did_data.py` to produce interpolated raw follow counts. Once we have both interpolated follower counts and follower/non-follower populations, we can first plot the mean following rates with 95% bootstrapped confidence intervals, then create the actual CSV for differences-in-differences, using `plots.ipynb`. The final CSV is input to `diff_in_diff.R`, which conducts a simple DiD analysis as well as an event study and compares coefficients for followers and non-followers. 

## Files That Aren't Code
* `plots/event_studies` contains event study plots, which show the causal effect of the repost on following rates over time.
* `plots/trends` has plots with mean following rates and 95% bootstrapped confidence intervals; since we don't have population numbers for each attention broker yet, some of these plots show raw follow counts. Because of my mistake with the relative timestamps, some of these plots are also backward and incorrect.
* `changelog.txt` details the changes I've made to the code and the problems I've run into & corrected.
* `population_counts/*.json` contains some (now known to be incorrect) population count JSON files.
* `handles_to_foll_population.json` contains some best effort population estimates for attention broker accounts that came from me using MARK. I'm not using them because they are based on the data where the relative timestamps are backwards.